VDB:

1) Search Description: will the results of the low-latency search be used for rapid
communication with EM partners?

The following text has been added to the search description:

There is no immediate plan or obvious requirement that the results of these
low-latency need to be communicated to electromagnetic partner observatories:
both Galactic magnetar hyper-flares and \gw{} detections from binary neutron
star coalescence are rare and will be of sufficient intrinsic astrophysical
importance that the results of the analyses proposed here will not contribute
strongly to a decision to study the source further.

2) Publication plan

For magnetar hyper-flares, the plan is indeed to target PRL for significant
non-detections, where significance will be judged on the basis of the GW energy
upper limit as described.

3) Overlaps with other searches

All-sky bursts: we plan to study online burst triggers around the time of the
event as a minimal first step in the analysis.  There is no conflict here and
interest triggers arising from other less-targeted searches will simply provide
an extra motivation for a speedy analysis.

For the other triggered searches, this is a great question.  I raised this in
the remaining time on the Oct 12th Burst call and, since it affects many
searches, this is on the agenda to be discussed more widely on a future call.
Here's my response for now:

Other triggered searches: the most likely overlap is likely to be with the
online GRB analyses.  It is quite possible, likely even, that a Galactic
magnetar hyperflare may initially be identified as an exceptionally bright short
GRB, thus launching the online GRB analyses.  The online GRB searches, however,
do not target the full parameter space of interest for neutron star
oscillations.  In particular, the online X-pipeline search only extends to 500
Hz which is too low to make any statement about f-mode oscillations.  The STAMP
GRB analysis, meanwhile, will be run at slightly higher latency and does not,
therefore, seem likely to overlap significantly.  In neither case do we foresee
a conflict in publication plans since a GRB which is later confirmed as a
magnetar flare is likely to be excluded from the `final' GRB publication.

If the event (galactic hyperflare or BNS detection) does turn out to be
coincident with e.g., a neutrino trigger, it would seem prudent to allow both
searches to run to completion since they do cover different parameter space.
Again, we do not perceive a conflict in terms of publication policy and suggest
that a reference should be made to the separate publications for each search in
the event of a non-detection.  

Of course, if a signal is detected very close coordination will be required
between the individual sub-groups for each source.

Added the following text to the proposal:

--
Finally, it is worth emphasising that we do not perceive any conflict or overlap
with other externally triggered analyses.  While it is likely that a Galactic
hyperflare will initially trigger the online GRB burst analysis, such an event
is unlikely to be included in a final GRB-specific publication.  Furthermore,
the analyses proposed here cover a wider and more appropriate signal space for 
magnetar triggers.  Similarly, in the case of other related triggers arising
from e.g., neutrino detectors or radio observatories, we do not propose any 
modifications to the search plans in order to maximise the signal space
coverage.  
---


4) Resources: difference between a 3- and 4-sigma statement?

The externally triggered detection analyses typically estimate background down
to 3-sigma in order to make a detection statement.  There is not an explicit
plan to make a 4-sigma statement (just >3-sigma) and so the computational costs
remain similar to those for the online GRB \& SNEWS analyses.

5) Technical requirements: waveform simulations

Good point!

For the short merger/post-merger bursts, we're currently using those we have
from Bauswein et al.  I've checked and there is no problem here, but we should
of course cite them out of courtesy where appropriate.  It's possible that other
groups may make waveforms publicly available - see, for example:
http://www.brunogiacomazzo.org/data.html

The NS group is also studying STAMP and X-pipeline sensitivity to
longer-duration signals based on astrophysically-motivated anti-chirps (e.g.,
spinning-down magnetars with a quadrupole deformation), bar-modes (similar but
stationary), plus a variety of more ad hoc waveforms with interesting frequency
content.   That section of the proposal now reads as follows:

---
The bulk of development work is expected to be the development and use of
appropriate waveform simulation infrastruture.  For the short-duration
post-merger bursts (where the detector antenna patter does not change
significantly over the duration of the signal), the codes and infrastructure
developed for the \textsc{NINJA} analyses should prove sufficient for assessing
the performance of the analysis.  The set of short-duration merger/post-merger
waveform simulations used in the study in~\cite{Clark:14} is available for use
in these studies and further simulations from other groups and collaborators may
become available in the coming months.  Longer duration signals where the
antenna pattern changes significantly over the course of the signal will require
some additional development and validation.   Simulations of these longer
duration signals will be based on astrophysically motivated analytic models such
as those described in~\cite{dallOsso14} and~\cite{barmodes}, as well as more ad
hoc simulations to explore and characterize the sensitivity to non-stationary
frequency content and signals whose frequency content tracks observed QPOs.
---

6) DetChar \& Calibration Requirements

Nothing above that which is required for the all-sky high-frequency search.
Adding the following text so that the requirement for high-frequency (up to at
least 4kHz) calibration is explicit:

---
Neither of these proposed searches has any specific detector characterization /
quality requirements above those of other triggered burst searches.  It should
be noted, however, that we do expect to analyze frequencies up to at least
4 kHz; we therefore make the explicity request for calibrated data up to
4096 Hz.  These searches are not expected to run at low-latency so this
calibration requirement does not seem likely to pose additional overhead to the
planned all-sky high-frequency analysis (which extends up to 6 kHz).
---

(I also took this opportunity to reorganise / add a new section: "Detector
Characterization, Calibration Requirements & Other Common Search Aspects" which
gathers together several miscellaneous points)


